- Yeah, for sure.
So, I mean, I think it's gonna be a lot of fun.
So hopefully you're looking forward to it as well.
- Yeah, for sure.
So, I mean, I think it's gonna be a lot of fun.
So, I'm excited to talk about ML Ops
and your community and some best practices
and tooling and all that kind of stuff.
And I think it's gonna be a lot of fun.
So hopefully you're looking forward to it as well.
I mean, think about one of the hottest areas of technology
right now, whether it's trying to get a job,
or it's VC funding, or whatever, right?
The machine learning and AI is like one of the peak buzzwords
right now.
And so I think this is going to be a fun conversation,
both to talk about this hot topic,
but also maybe to demystify it a little bit.
Yeah.
I hope we can do that.
I think we can.
I definitely think we can.
You all built this cool community, mlops.community,
which we're gonna talk about a lot,
but before we get into that topic,
let's just start with your background
and how you got into machine learning and all this stuff.
Kate, let's start with you.
- All right, so my background's probably
not so conventional for the field,
although nothing is conventional for ML,
I guess, at this point.
So originally, I actually started studying business
and economics back in the day,
And then I slowly shifted into basically digital analytics for marketing and stuff like that.
At which point I realized that I'm more interested in the numbers than in influencing people.
So I went through a boot camp and then one thing led to another through consulting, internships and so forth.
Once you get your foot in the door, I guess it's easier to establish yourself.
And then I ended up continuing on that path, mostly data science.
So not crazy robots or anything.
- No self-driving cars right now.
- Don't sell their cars yet.
So it's still mostly basically ML for commercial purposes.
So like working with sales data,
with text data and so forth.
- Cool.
- That was it.
- Yeah, fantastic.
I think there's a lot of people that come from economics
in that area and get into sort of get into computation
and then get into data science.
It's a bit of a gateway, I think.
- Yeah, and I mean, economics is also kind of
this easy choice of subject when you're finishing school.
You're kind of like, "Hmm, I can do math,
"so I'm not gonna do just social science."
It's okay, let's go for economics.
And then you're like, "Hmm, what can I actually do with it?"
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
I had a similar experience with my math degree, but.
Yeah, fantastic.
So you said you did a bootcamp, which I think is interesting.
When I think bootcamps, I think JavaScript front end, not necessarily the best thing
to just produce a whole world full of JavaScript front end folks.
But that's sort of the main bootcamp story.
It sounds like yours was in data science.
Was that a good experience?
What was that like?
So we actually did have those paths as well with Java and front end.
I just decided to go for the data science one.
I think they even called it big data in AI or something like that.
But technically it was just like pure, nice Jupyter notebooks where you are massaging
the data a little bit and then running your first couple of models.
It was very nice in a sense that it was like all of us struggling together was very intense.
So you kind of can test drive your idea of whether it's actually for you or not in a
very short time.
And ours lasted like, I think three or four weeks.
And after that internship, the same company, sorry, Bootcamp, would get you into an internship.
If you pass the whole Bootcamp, you pass the last test, do the project, and then do the
interview, you can be a candidate there.
And I think that was very appealing to me because it had some consequence.
It wasn't just, oh, let's try this out, and then I don't know what I'm going to do, who's
going to hire me, whatever.
It was very well thought out.
So in that sense, I think it's a great program that they have put together.
I think they're not doing it anymore, like specifically for data scientists, because
they found out it's very hard even in consulting to employ very, very junior data scientists
and get value out of them.
So now they're training people in data engineering and then a little flavor of data science so
that later you can develop the skill and maybe apply that knowledge down the road.
- Yeah, interesting.
I do think it probably is a little bit challenging
to get in as a junior,
because there's not a huge team of data scientists
a lot of times, so interesting.
Demetrius, how about you?
- Yeah, so I fell into this very, very happenstance,
in a happenstance kind of way,
which was I was working on the sales side
of a company that was selling tools
to machine learning engineers,
and so I was that guy that would spam people
And so if I spammed you, please forgive me back in the day.
If I tried to reach out to you on LinkedIn
and I tricked you into connecting with me,
that was my past life.
I have repented for my sins
and now I do the community stuff full on.
But yeah, the company was doing ML tooling
and we were really focused on provenance
and trying to be able to reproduce your runs
or your data, your models,
everything that comes along with the modeling side
of machine learning.
And so what happened was though,
when the pandemic hit, that company went out of business
and just about like three weeks
before the company went out of business,
nobody was picking up the phone,
nobody was connecting with me on LinkedIn.
And so our CEO said,
"Why don't we try and do something around a community?"
And we basically--
- So people don't want us to come to them,
maybe we can make a place for them to come to, right?
- Exactly, and so our CEO, I gotta hand it to him,
his name's Luke Marsden, back in those days,
and he was the CEO of this company called DotScience,
which is now defunct, he said,
"You know what, he has open source in his blood.
"He can't help but do the open source thing."
Even though this company wasn't open source,
He wanted the community to be very open source
and vendor neutral and open to anyone.
And in the beginning, I didn't understand that.
I was like, wait a minute,
you're gonna let our competitors come in here?
And not only that, you're gonna let them give a talk?
No way, man, this is crazy.
And so he was all about it.
And he helped me to understand the value of community
and what it's about.
And then because of that, those first weeks,
I just was interviewing people
as a podcast host because I needed to ramp up.
And so I was interviewing people,
basically I was learning on the air.
And I was talking to different machine learning engineers
when we would have the meetups
and we would run it like a,
like almost like a podcast slash meetup.
And it would be live podcast,
kind of not too dissimilar to what we are doing right now.
And then I was able to talk to enough people
and then more people started joining the community
and then I started learning more about it.
And now here we are, like two years later,
and I'm still running with the community.
It became something that is like my pride and joy.
And I can't see, it's part of my identity now,
which I don't know if that's a good or bad thing,
but it's part of it.
- It sounds really fun.
And these communities are super fun to build.
And two years, that's a long time to be building.
And so it's the kind of stuff
that doesn't necessarily explode overnight,
but if you sort of take the long view
and then look back, you're like, wow, look what we built.
That's pretty neat.
- Yeah, totally.
I mean, and Vishnu was in it at the very beginning
and Vishnu and I talked quite a bit.
And it was like, when there was,
I remember in the first couple months,
I was sitting there and thinking,
wow, if we hit 600 people in Slack,
that will be like, uncomprehendable.
And so, yeah, then it's kind of, like you said,
it's just grown from there and you look back and you go,
How did we get here?
Wow, this is incredible.
- Yeah, I think one of the things
that's easy to lose sight of for creators
and community members or organizers and stuff,
it's really easy to get tied up.
You look at like a famous YouTube person
with a million views on their videos,
or you look at some crazy TikTok thing or something,
but 600 people, that's pretty close to a keynote
for a lot of conference.
That's like the premier group where you try to get them all together.
Like that's pretty, pretty amazing.
So and I know it's grown from there, which is awesome.
Yeah.
Vishnu, how about you?
Well how I got started in ML, I think if I really had to trace it back, it was maybe
around 2017, you know, around that time I was really kind of thinking about what I should
try and do in my career.
I was really passionate about, I am, continue to be very passionate about healthcare and
biotech and sort of life sciences field.
And I was reading a lot and kind of thinking, "What do I want to do with my career?"
It was maybe kind of similar to Demetrius, actually contemplating some of the more sales
or business development or product management side of things in the industry.
But I was like, "It doesn't feel tangible enough.
It doesn't feel like I'm actually helping make people healthier in a very hands-on way."
And so I started to read more papers as part of a master's program on the impact of machine
learning in health, healthcare, and biotechnology, and decided, "Okay, this is what I want to
do."
And just spent some time teaching myself how these things work, took some courses, became
a machine learning engineer in a medical device company.
And quickly after starting that, realized, "Well, there's a lot more to machine learning
than just doing model.fit."
And that's when I joined the MLOps community back when it was about 300 people in May of
2020.
And, you know, I've been in it since.
Dimitris and I are pretty, pretty tied to that.
And that's kind of tracked my growth as a machine learning engineer in terms of understanding,
you know, okay, how do we go from model to model and production to system to, you know,
business value.
And that's kind of been my journey in terms of this industry to date.
Yeah.
Super neat.
I think around 2017 was certainly when the promise of machine learning for healthcare
really started to gain public awareness.
You had like, I don't remember exactly the timing, but like that X-Prize around mammography
images and stuff like that, where like, this is starting to beat doctors, right?
And it's automatic.
Like could it be both fast and sort of beating radiologists' estimates of whether or not
someone has cancer and things like that.
And that's, that was, that's pretty neat.
And I'm sure I haven't been tracking it that closely,
those sorts of developments,
but I'm sure it's just grown from there.
- Yeah, I mean, I think around that time you had,
it's a good memory with XPRIZE
that was on sort of available.
There was also a chest X-ray work that was open source
from the NIH, big data sets around, you know,
what's the, what is the promise of machine learning modeling
for that problem, diagnosing pneumonia,
And then also AlphaFold came out around that time
from DeepMind for biotech and protein engineering.
And so on all sorts of different vectors,
you had a lot of energy.
And I guess I was sucked in by that.
- Yeah, that's cool.
I suspect that the protein folding understanding
is even more important really than you have this problem,
but like here we can understand how to fix it maybe.
For sure.
- Yeah, I think the protein folding stuff,
it's especially with the open sourcing of AlphaFold2,
recently the buzz is pretty incredible.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Well, let's start off by talking a bit
about the ML Ops community some more,
and then we can dive into a couple of layers
of best practices and machine learning
in production and stuff like that.
So maybe Dimitrios, we talked a bit about it,
but you wanna introduce what it's all about for folks?
- Yeah, and so we're really trying to just be,
- Yeah, this landing page is funny
because it's something that we put together
whatever years ago and now we definitely need an upgrade
and so we're doing that right now
because I realized after I surveyed the whole community,
a lot of people are like,
wow, we're in this community, we're in the Slack,
but we didn't realize that there is newsletters
you got going on, you've got round table discussions
happening, there's reading groups,
there's all kinds of different initiatives
that people from the community are doing,
and we don't actually make that very clear
for people when they join, right?
So maybe they know about the Slack,
or maybe they know about the meetups,
or the podcasts that we have, but that's it.
And they don't necessarily get to go through all of that
and have a better overview.
So that's what we're doing now.
And really, like the community for us,
it's trying to find this place,
We're trying to define and create this space
where people can come together, they can learn,
they can engage with practitioners who are on the front lines
and get their questions answered,
but also like meet others and network with people.
And we're doing that in this virtual space.
We're trying to really share, collaborate, learn,
and trying to make it fun also.
So it's not just like numbers,
crunching numbers and stale and boring.
- Sure, I'll throw an idea out there.
You'll tell me what you think.
I already sort of hinted at this,
for software developers, a lot of times they're on teams
where there's a group of five or 10 of them working together
but I feel like that's less true for machine learning folks
and more of a specialized role.
Not always, I know, and there's teams and stuff
but a lot of companies have a data scientist
or one or two data scientists.
And it seems to me like communities like this
would be even more valuable than say,
like a software development one,
where it's maybe easier to find people in your environment
as a meet at a meetup or at a company
that you already work at or something like that.
- Totally.
- Yeah.
Yeah, and it...
Go ahead Vishnu.
- I resonate with your description there, Michael,
because that was me when I found the community, right?
You know, I was a machine learning engineer
who was putting together some models
that I thought could be used better
by the company that I was at,
could be integrated into our hardware device
a little bit better than I thought
that then was currently being done.
And I was trying to talk to our software engineers
and realize like, hey, there's kind of a,
just like a translation gap.
Like what is this field of like taking a model
that exists and has some value in terms of like accuracy
and precision or whatever else,
and turn that into an artifact
that's consumed by software teams
and then ultimately by business teams.
And I read about ML Ops in 2020,
but was really not clear what exactly that meant.
It felt more like a buzzword than it did like a field
at that time, you know?
And I joined the community
and it essentially became real-time stack overflow for me,
right, where people are asking and answering questions daily
about how do you actually implement production ML?
What does it look like?
What are the best practices?
and how can we help each other do that at work
and be better ML practitioners day to day.
So it's been great from that standpoint.
- Yeah, fantastic.
Kate, how about you?
How'd you come to the community?
- I'm not actually sure exactly,
but I think it was also like the whole pandemic,
you try to connect to the world and including MLOps.
And at the time a friend of mine
who was also starting a community in Riga,
it wasn't MLOps, it was data science in my hometown,
because again, we couldn't meet in person.
So we did that.
And along the same time,
we discovered that there are other Slack communities
and it was just fun to, we had a different focus.
So it was just fun to be kind of part of both
and in different directions.
And I do agree with the Stack Overflow notion.
Like sometimes, especially if you're working alone
on a problem, you just go there to feel like
you're not crazy, first of all,
think what you're thinking.
And secondly, just basically I can search right now.
is like such a huge knowledge base because so many questions have been asked so I can go there to
quickly validate some ideas, see which angles have been taken into consideration, so in that sense it
was fun and definitely the networking aspect. Luckily Berlin is full of ML people and that's
definitely one of the places you can reach out for questions. I had some people reach out to me,
ask about like what are the companies to apply to, are there any jobs, do you want to refer me and
and vice versa, so it's definitely fun.
- Yeah, nice.
I don't know why this is, but you're right.
It does seem like Berlin and sort of generally Germany
as well, it's just a lot of times I'm talking to people
about data science or machine learning,
I'm like, wait, you're both in Berlin?
No, it's like of all the places in the world,
it does seem like a hotbed of machine learning.
That's pretty cool.
- And now there's a lot of companies
that just source their talent here
and work in completely different markets
because they know that there are people here
and the people will be willing to relocate here as well.
So that's definitely adding to the whole dynamic.
- Yeah, absolutely.
It's a cool place to live.
And I think probably a lot of folks in Germany,
I know the education system there,
they end up very good and strong backgrounds in math
and stuff.
So, right, compared to other places in the world,
like the US, certainly coming out of high school there,
you come out with a very strong math degree,
I know that much, so pretty cool.
All right, well, let's start by talking about,
I wanted to cover sort of the, your overall thoughts
on some different layers or stages
of a machine learning project,
so we could structure our conversation around that.
So I wanna talk about prototyping,
come up with ideas, choosing frameworks, things like that,
and then talk about building the project with development
and then running and maintaining it over time,
the whole ops sort of machine learning
and production side of things.
So let's start with prototyping.
So I guess the first question I wanted to ask,
and this might be, I don't know,
you all can laugh at me or whatever,
but deciding is a problem actually
a machine learning problem?
Because there is so much hype around AI
and machine learning that sometimes I think
a series of if statements.
It is called artificial intelligence.
I remember there was this scandal,
I think it was in the UK,
there was some airline company
that was specifically finding families traveling together
and booking them apart from each other
and then charging them money to book themselves back,
like a premium so they could sit with their family.
Like, sorry, your seat didn't get put next to your family.
Whoopsie, but you can pay 50 bucks or 50 quid or whatever
and get back by your family, right?
And it was in the lawmakers there were like,
they're using artificial intelligence to do this terrible,
I think that sounds like an if statement.
So, you know, like I think deciding,
should I just encode some decision making into software,
which we often call programming,
versus is it a real machine learning problem
where like, you know, neural networks or NLP,
like, how do you all think about
this is a machine learning problem
versus this is just a software problem, traditional style.
- I'll just say one thing just before
I let Vishnu and Kate jump in.
And it comes from one of the community members, Eugene Yan,
who has a famous tweet and blog post
about the first rule of machine learning
is don't use machine learning.
And so if you can avoid it at all costs,
it's probably better,
just because you're adding additional complexity.
And if you don't need to do that,
then it's gonna be infinitely easier on you to not.
That being said, there are a lot of times
where you do need to add it.
And there are a lot of businesses
that are realizing business value from it.
So that's like kind of a hand wavy answer,
but I'll see if Vishnu or Kate have anything more.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Also, I just wanna give a quick shout out.
I did have Eugene on the podcast back in March of last year
and we talked about the seven lessons
that machine learning can teach us about life
or something like that, which is pretty,
he's a very thoughtful guy, it was interesting.
- Yeah, he's great.
- Yeah. - He's awesome.
- Yeah.
- I mean, your question is about whether or not
to use machine learning versus
maybe more traditional approaches.
- Right, right, someone comes to you with a problem,
so we need to make our API do this
website do this or our app do that? And how do you decide like, this is a machine learning problem
versus just, you know, you just need to decide if statement or switch statement or whatever.
Yeah, I mean, I deal with this problem a lot in my role right now. So I'm a data scientist at a
healthcare services company, actually the first data hire. And, you know, a lot of times, you
know, I have people come to me that says, Hey, this is a clinical population, this is a group
group of people that we want to serve, you know,
how do you think about delivering our intervention to them?
I'm speaking in generalities, but I can,
I can talk a little bit more specifically to some examples
of this later on.
And to me, what matters most is driving value
on a single business metric, because to be honest,
that's the simplest way that your company does better
and you do better, right?
It's not through, let's say,
implementing the most fancy algorithm, you know,
we're not working in research environments anymore
when it comes to machine learning as often as we used to.
If you're in a research role, be my guest,
use the most advanced algorithm
or whatever the coolest latest model might be.
But for me, the number one thing is
what is the business model metric I'm trying to drive?
Is that engagement for our population?
Is that some sort of like quality metric
in the healthcare sense that I'm trying to change?
And then what is the simplest possible way
that I can advance that number?
Is it just like a standard SQL query I run?
Is it some kind of template in SQL query
or is it a machine learning model?
And the idea is simple is reliable and scalable
much more so than something complicated.
And that's something, that's kind of the way that I triage
whether or not machine learning
is the right intervention for a problem.
So to kind of recap, it's like,
what's the business model metric I'm trying to push
and then what's the simplest possible thing
knowing that it's something that needs to be reliable
maintainable for the long term.
Yeah, excellent.
Kate?
I agree with Vishnu.
Well, my advantage as a newcomer to this career path, I guess, was that I was just unable
to go very fancy in many of the cases.
So it was a no brainer to go, what is the simplest way and what is actually the way
I can solve the problem?
And then just by having adopted that mentality early on, you basically hack the problem,
And then also coming from more business marketing background,
again, I'm not thinking about what is the fancy, shiny new tool that I want to use.
Sometimes I do now because I'm bored, but this is more for the cases where nobody cares what I'm really doing.
And I show something sparkly.
From my side, I would say it's very important to communicate the solution rather than thinking about whether it's an ML problem or not at the end of the day.
So if you give the people what they want and with the shine and sparkle that they want,
they will forget whether there's AI behind it or not.
Having said that though, in consulting experience, sometimes people really come to you and they're
like, I want this predictive model and just like leave it or take it.
And you do it for them, even though it's not the most, the best approach, or especially
if you try to explain maybe that it's not the best approach, but sometimes people just
need to, I don't know, maybe they have a KPI of having developed one and introduce one
ML project into their teams and this is it, like whatever way.
So there's some, I think most people here can be reasoned with.
Yeah.
The stockholders demand more AI, so we need more AI.
We don't know what that means, but we definitely need it.
No, no, that's, that's great.
And I do resonate with the idea of just start simple and evolve.
Like so many people perceive software and software projects in the broader sense as
I have to think about it for a long time and get it right, rather than let me try to build
something over a day. And if it doesn't work, I'll try something else. Or we can evolve it over time.
And maybe that comes from back when software was harder to change and the tools were crummier or
or whatever, but yeah, I think just jump in, try something,
and go with that.
Yeah, I wanted to say something real fast on machine learning
especially.
And this is something that I think a lot of people
don't realize until later on.
And I see it time and time again from the veterans
in the community coming and answering questions
that are being proposed.
And that is really taking it back.
when you're proposing a solution
or when you're asking a question in the community,
it's like, but what is it exactly?
What is the business value here
that you're trying to affect?
Because machine learning is so closely tied to business
that you can't really, it's like that Venn diagram
is so overlapping on the business side
and it also has the technology side,
but a lot of times we just take for granted
that it's technology, but you can't do that, right?
like especially with machine learning.
Like if you're an SRE and you're just focusing on SLOs
and all of that, it's a lot easier to be like,
okay, cool, this is a very technology problem.
But when you're machine learning, and like Vishnu said,
like you really gotta know what kind of metrics
are you trying to move the needle on
and how are you gonna go about that.
So that was just something that I noticed comes up
quite a bit from the veterans saying like,
wait a minute, slow down.
Before you go for that next one,
what is it that you're trying to do here?
- Probably someone comes in with a question like,
I'm trying to make PyTorch do this thing
and I'm having a hard time.
And like, whoa, whoa, whoa,
but do you really need to do it that way?
Like, is that really, maybe it's cool or whatever,
but is that really what you need in this situation?
Could you just--
- Actually, that's exactly what it is.
And oftentimes it's something even more complicated
than that where like, I'm trying to have,
you know, I'm trying to use Kubernetes
to do this retraining job 100,000 times
so I can see which of these models is most effective
at this particular metric.
And you're like, whoa, whoa,
you're about to undertake a huge engineering project
with all kinds of complicated tools, why?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it's exactly the way it is.
- People into existential crisis, so that is.
- I guess so.
- It's not funny.
The audience, Cam asks or says rather,
A lot of times I have researchers propose algorithms
that are too computationally complex to run
at the speed we need for production.
And I think that's probably also an interesting thing
to consider when you're doing the sort of prototyping,
getting things started is maybe here's a algorithm,
I'll give you a great answer,
but Vishnu, you talked about training 100,000 ways, right?
Like, can you really spend $25,000 to decide,
compute in the cloud or something to decide if this is even going to work, right? Or could
you do that in production over the data you have or something, right?
A lot of times in, I'd say like a lot of times in machine learning, our default in terms
of technical requirements is pretty unilateral, you could say, right? It's like increased
accuracy or the precision or whatever the score is. But in software engineering, and
and other forms of engineering,
they're much better at understanding
multivariate requirements, right?
And I think that's where you see the tension, right?
The data scientist says,
but this model works at the problem.
It does the thing it's supposed to.
It's better on this one thing.
And the engineer says, well, wait, no,
there are a million things I need to think about.
I need to think about latency.
I need to think about maintainability.
I need to think about, you know,
how big the file might be.
There might be a million different things.
And I think that's where you see
the kind of thing that Cam's talking about.
- Yeah, interesting.
- And I think it comes from academia actually,
because they just recently, I remember a year ago,
were doing a meta-science course where they discussed ML,
basically model assessment,
and how the same researchers
could not reproduce their results
because they just realized they use different compute.
So they will be having different results.
And in each of those cases,
they realized they need to bring that information in,
in the academic paper to have comparable scenarios.
So maybe you have a little compute,
a little compute, and then this is the best model
and in the other scenario, the other one is better model.
And I think now that there's changes in academia,
it will kind of become more standard
to consider elsewhere as well.
- Yeah, that's a good point.
Go ahead, Dimitris.
- I was just gonna say that how many times
have we heard of stories, and I'm sure people listening
have lived these stories of a data scientist coming
with a model and it's like, or they go,
they get tasked with a problem,
they go work on a model for a while
and they come back with the accuracy
or F score is like perfect.
And then they give it to whoever the stakeholder is,
another stakeholder and that stakeholder is like,
but this is useless to me.
I don't care what your accuracy score,
you're not actually solving the problem here.
And it just goes back to this,
Like, make sure you're very clear on what you're optimizing for.
And then another point I wanted to make, which I feel like is super important,
is depending on your use case, you really have to be vigilant about what you're
trying to do and what you use to get there.
Because if you're doing like autonomous vehicles, that is a whole nother world as
compared to what Vishnu is doing or what Kate's doing, right?
Like even if you're just dealing with unstructured data
and you have a computer vision problem that's in healthcare
and it's deciding if someone has cancer,
that takes a lot longer.
You can put out like one model
and it has to get approved by the FDA.
And that takes a long time for it to go through that process.
So you don't really care about like updating that model
in real time and gathering that data right on the fly.
But if you're in autonomous vehicles,
that's a whole nother set of problems
that you need to get into.
And so really like recognizing what is your use case,
what is the big things that you need to take into account
as you're looking into these use cases?
And where do you want to optimize?
- For sure, and I definitely want to talk about
that trade off of like building the perfect model
versus evolving it later.
So another area that I think is interesting
to consider as you're getting started
has to do with how much compute does it take to solve some of these problems and build
some of these models like more than a lot of other areas of software development, you
know, training models takes a ton of energy, which can either mean money or time or both,
you know, putting aside like just the carbon costs of like spending a lot of time on servers,
but just, you know, how are you going to accomplish that? Right? So, you know, how do you think
about that trade off? Like, can I train this up on my laptop? Or do I need to get a GPU
cluster? Or what are your thoughts there?
I mean, I think, you know, it's funny, I actually think the compute part of ml ops is perhaps
the most solved portion of the stack. You know, we usually think about things in terms
of data, model, and code in machine learning. Your data is changing. You want your model to
change as the data changes, and then your code is just sort of a way that you control
the model that you're creating based on that data. And when you think about what AWS has done
over the last few years to make it more possible than ever, companies like PaperSpace as well,
And even, you know, Google Cloud was making cloud free and GPU instances free.
Like it's, it's, it's very easy to experiment with compute much more so than ever before.
And, and I think that is the hardest part of the process, right?
It's freedom to experiment, is usually what is the constraint.
Right.
and I think, you know, I'll just contrast that with data, right?
It's very difficult to, I would say experiment in the machine learning process
right now with different data sets with trying to work with sort of synthetic data or use
different cuts of data that are, you know, correlated with interpretability. That is
a very much more complicated area that I would say that I think a lot of machine learning
professionals spend a lot of time doing a lot of manual work on, as opposed to compute
nowadays, which is by and large, I think, like a very experimental and solved problem.
- Yeah, excellent.
Do you do any edge computing with your,
do you do like medical devices or anything,
like little devices that people walk around with
that you've got to put real-time stuff onto?
- I used to, I used to work at a medical device company
that was doing an eye imaging device,
and we used to put a machine learning model
on an ophthalmic imager.
And it was interesting.
It really gave me a lot of appreciation
for what some of the folks at Apple and NVIDIA and Fitbit
and some of the other sort of bigger companies
that do a lot of machine learning on device do.
It takes a particularly talented group of hardware
and software and machine learning professionals
to make all that stuff work together.
And I would definitely suggest
to anybody interested in this field,
like check out what NVIDIA is doing.
They're doing a lot of really cool stuff.
but from what I learned my time doing it,
I learned that simplicity is really,
it's the way that you can get things done.
We were just exporting model weights to a pickle file
and then doing some very low level computation
to make it as fast as we needed.
So that's about my experience working on that level.
- Interesting, okay, yeah.
I'm always blown away that pickle is still used,
but especially in this area, it's pretty--
- It works.
- I know, it definitely does.
It's easy, it's just whatever, just save that,
we'll deal with that.
Let's talk real quick about one thing you have
over on the community.
You have this, you have a couple of things
up at the top here,
and one of them is called this feature store.
All right, it sounds like it might be helpful
for people to get started.
Do you wanna tell us about this a little bit?
- Yeah, so we tried to, we like set out
to demystify a space and like I have so many stories
of how this just was like,
I didn't know what I was getting myself into
when I started creating this because the MLOps,
first of all, like right now in machine learning,
there's not clear spaces of like, oh, this is this tool
and you need this tool if you're doing XYZ
and here's the space that it occupies.
There's like this tooling sprawl
and some tools do a little bit of this
and other tools do a little bit of that.
And maybe this tool does all of these things
but it doesn't get you with that.
And so what I've been able to congregate on
or like I landed on a few things
that are different spaces that are clearly defined.
And one is the monitoring space
because I think that's just really easy
for people to comprehend.
Monitoring is, it's like software development monitoring,
but then you add the machine learning aspect to it
and you add that data and then boom,
you've got lots of new stuff to monitor.
And then there's the feature store part.
There's also like the metadata management
or experiment tracking piece.
And then there's the deploy piece.
And like, you can ask Vishnu,
I've gone back and forth on how we're going
to present these things,
what we're going to do in order to create,
should we create the framework
and basically do Gartner's job for them
and say like, these are what you should be looking for
in the tooling if you're looking for a feature store
or if you're looking for a monitoring tool.
And that's what we kind of have been trying to do.
And we've been working with all the different companies
in the community and then also like practitioners
who use this and we've been asking them like,
hey, is this what you would expect from a feature store
or a monitoring company or a metadata management
or a deployment tool?
The problem is that there's a lot of tools right now
that are doing, they're specializing in optimizing compute.
And then they also have deployment as a feature.
So is that a deployment tool?
- Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it's a tricky one.
But I guess the takeaway maybe is over on your website,
you've got like some different categories
that sort of try to do that comparison
to help people pick some of these tools, right?
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
And so that's where me pulling my hair out
for the last like year and a half
has been just trying to figure out like what,
because I know that if I'm struggling differentiating
all of these tools, I'm not the only one, right?
And so this is what I go on
and people reach out to me quite a bit
to tell me about their new MLOps tool,
and I go onto their website,
and I'm like, what exactly do they do?
It's always the same stat.
You hear like, 80% of machine learning models
never make it into production.
And that's what they have is their H1 on their website.
And then it's like, but what do you do?
I don't understand.
So we tried to take a non-biased approach
to figuring that out.
- Yeah, very cool.
Let's move over to the development side.
So you sort of figured out your path,
you decided it is machine learning problem,
how you wanna approach it and so on.
What are some of the recommendations or techniques
that you have for people sort of in that stage
of these ML projects?
The one that I hear a lot of times is
sort of the category I guess is,
there's a lot of software engineering practices
that don't necessarily get brought into data science.
as often as they should, for example, like unit testing
or version control or stuff like that.
Like, what are your thoughts, Kate and Vishnu especially?
- I'll let Kate go first.
- Yeah, it's a good one.
I wouldn't call myself a super awesome engineer.
I'm still on that path, trying to just be tolerant
and understanding to my other folks on the team
who actually know what they're doing
and not to make their lives too hard.
My personal super tiny hack was,
especially in the days where I think people
are still using notebooks,
but I'm using VS Code with this like hash percent percent sign
which turns your script into cells.
And when I'm done, I just clean it up
and it becomes a normal script again,
or at least I can basically copy it.
- You can still run it, yeah.
- I still run it and test it out that way.
and that I think really speeds up the process.
And of course, yeah, version control.
Currently I'm working with teams
or just basically either data engineer or SREs
who are helping me make things a bit more polished
or deploy them a bit better.
So I don't have to think about it that much.
So I'm happy to hear from Vishnu.
- Yeah.
- I mean, I think to me,
components of the software engineering workflow
that I suggest data scientists
and machine learning engineers heavily leverage
are version control, CI/CD, testing,
and in general, clean code, best practices, right?
- Code reuse functions rather than just top to bottom
with copy paste.
- Yeah, I mean, if you do those three, four things,
like, you know, that's actually, you know, I would say like a good bit of the hard day-to-day
stuff, right?
Just following those best practices and they'll really accelerate you.
So I try to set those things up, you know, early on in the process of running a project,
you know, setting up the repo, GitHub repo the right way, setting up CI/CD to the extent
that makes sense.
You know, you don't want to over-engineer infrastructure around your project without
having a project too early on, but I think those kinds of things are very helpful.
And we had on a guest on our podcast, on our Ops Community podcast, Demetrius and I, a
guy named Jesse Johnson, who is the VP of software engineering and data scientists at
a company called Dewpoint Therapeutics.
And he has this concept known as building software from the outside in.
And what that means is you start sort of at the finished...
You start, like when you're building like a product,
a product maybe that involves an API,
like define what the API looks like
and define what you'd like your end user,
what their experience to be like,
and then build backwards to all the things
that allow for that to happen.
And I like to think about the same thing
with a machine learning model
or with whatever kind of data science output that I have,
which is, what do I want that end experience to look like?
How elegant should it feel?
How reliable, maintainable and well architected should it be?
and then build inwards towards that.
So that's sort of another software
sort of engineering concept I started to apply.
- Yeah, a lot of people talk about how unit testing
makes your code better.
And I think that's actually,
you've touched on the key to why that is.
Because instead of just thinking about the details
of the algorithm, you have to think about like,
well, how is this gonna look
when somebody tries to use it, right?
'Cause that's what you gotta kind of do in the test
is use it a little bit.
- I talked about one other thing.
- Yeah, go ahead.
- I'm trying to get you guys.
- Kate, do you want to go?
And then I'll jump in.
- I just wanted to do a quick joke
that it runs on my machine.
So it must be good.
(laughing)
- It must work.
Do you know about the,
it works on my machine certification program?
(laughing)
- No, what is that?
- I hate this.
- Oh, it's brilliant.
So it has some interesting rules.
So yeah, anytime somebody is sort of,
can do this, you can give them this stamp
And it's brilliant to be certified.
You have to compile your application code.
This is like a language of files.
Getting the latest version of any code changes
from any other developer is purely optional.
Launch the app, cause at least one path to be executed.
Preferred way to do this is ad hoc manual testing.
You can omit this step if the code change
was fewer than five lines
or in the developer's professional opinion,
the code change could not possibly result in an error.
Check in your code, certified.
Oh boy, yeah, I know.
It's the problem that we all run into, right?
Is reproducibility and the shareability and so on.
And you're right that source control and CI and these things
are absolutely, absolutely important.
One thing-- Dimitris, go ahead and jump in with your thought.
Then I want to talk about a tool here real quick.
>>Dimitris: Oh, yeah.
I was just going to say that one of the guests on the Community
podcast made an excellent point.
We've had two that have come on and talked about testing
specifically for machine learning.
And one of them, Svet, was talking about how
when you properly test--
and actually, Mohamed, both of them,
they kind of said the same thing in different words.
When you have tests set up and they're properly there,
not just unit tests, but also like testing the data
and this kind of stuff, one of the side effects
that you get from that is it's documentation.
It's like you have these artifacts that are left.
And so you, as someone who's coming in and jumping in new,
you get to see, oh, okay,
so this is what's happening with this slice of data.
And this is when you are trying to debug something,
it gives you a much better picture
and it's more clearly laid out
than if you were to just leave it all up to chance,
we could say.
- Yeah, and you know, the open source angle,
if you're looking at some package or library
to use for your code, and you go and check it out,
and it has no tests, there's a good chance you're like,
ah, this thing's not really ready.
People are not putting the effort to make sure
it's good enough to remain good enough over time,
and to help onboard new contributors
that you really wanna depend upon it, right?
So I think there's that angle that's important as well.
The two tools I wanted to talk about really quick
in this area is this thing called DCV,
which is open source version control
for machine learning projects.
Maybe, and then also before that is NBDev from fast.ai.
Vishnu, you spoke about using get
and checking in your stuff and so on.
And one of the challenges, I think notebooks are great,
but one of the challenges of them
is they kind of save their output in the file
and every run potentially could be generating
a different output, which means some like
meaningless Git merge conflict problem
you gotta deal with.
Do you have ideas to fix some of that stuff
or do you use anything like NBDev
to sort of make that simpler?
- Good question.
I like paper mill a lot.
I follow the Netflix approach for--
- Yeah.
working with notebooks, I think that they're a very useful tool.
I think that if you're...
Give us a quick summary of what the Netflix philosophy there is.
Sure, yeah.
I really should do that.
Basically, Netflix's point is, you know, notebooks are a really effective, interactive prototyping
tool that if given really prescriptive guardrails can be a part of a production process.
And they use notebooks in production at Netflix.
And they really encourage their use internally and they've developed a lot of tools that
help make sure that, you know, the known flaws of notebooks, such as the state element that
you pointed out, don't lead to things falling off the rails.
And that's the way I like to think about it as well.
I don't use an NBDev myself.
But I do think it's a great project that for people who are thinking about using notebooks,
they should check out.
I think another tool that I've heard of is called Plumber.
But the most important thing is when you're using notebooks, I think rather than getting
into a holy war about whether they're the best tool or not, it's understanding that
is it the right tool for my job?
I view the right context for that as being when iteration
and speed is of the essence,
there is no tool that is better than a Jupyter Notebook.
It's just, it just, there isn't.
And then we have the empirical proof for that.
So let's just find ways of putting process around it
to make it work.
- Sure. Yeah, that makes sense.
What about tools like DCV,
some of these version control systems?
You know, part of the problem is the data sets
and data science in general,
but machine learning as well,
it's just like, it doesn't necessarily make sense
to check them directly into,
into Git, you know?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so some tools like this have sprung up
to allow for sort of a side-by-side store of your data,
but it's also tracked in Git,
but not entirely stored in Git.
So do you, Kate or Vishnu, or do you using this?
- This is funny 'cause I try, I'm trying not to,
but this is exactly the space that that company
that went out of business at the beginning of the podcast.
This is what they were playing in and trying to make--
- Oh, interesting, okay.
- But yeah, I'll let Kate and Vishnu give their opinions.
- Yeah, it's also the kind of tool
that you would have to categorize
into your Gartner four quadrant thing, right, somehow.
- What I found, what's so interesting is that,
I mean, just, this is, and this is horrible to say,
but people have, it feels like people have
so many other problems with getting their machine learning
into production that this is almost like a secondary thing
that comes afterwards or they don't necessarily care
as much about this because it is, it's like--
- There's bigger, more significant problems, right?
That are just like, we've got to solve this
for this even matter, yeah.
- That's not to say there's not a lot of people out there.
I know there's a ton of people that use DVC.
Their community is huge.
It's a great tool, but I do think about that sometimes.
Like, yeah, there's mission critical things
that are really top of mind.
And everybody likes to talk about how reproducibility
is very important for them, but unless you're in banking
and you need to because of the law,
it's not necessarily the most important thing for them.
- Sure.
- I would say in my experience,
versioning and lineage and stuff
tends to be the province of data engineering teams
a lot more than it is machine learning engineers.
And the way that we think about data
in a machine learning context
as sort of one-off artifacts
that we need to associate with a particular experiment
is not compatible
with the way a lot of data engineering teams
think about their data sets as being sort of like
a baked cake, you know, that is ready for consistent use
going forward, right, to use that sort of cake analogy
that's common in data engineering.
So like, you know,
I personally, I use DVC, I think it's a well-created tool.
It didn't exactly solve my problems.
I'm a big believer, like if you're a machine learning
engineer and you're having data versioning problems,
like go learn a little bit about, you know,
data engineering and learn about data warehouses
and databases and how you can leverage the existing tools
in that field, rather than trying to use,
maybe something that might have been spun up
for a very specific purpose or adopt a platform
like a Packarderm that has an end-to-end approach
to thinking about the entire machine learning pipeline
that does dataset versioning,
that helps you do your experiment tracking
and helps you with sort of your deployment.
That's kind of my approach to thinking about
dataset versioning as a component
of the overall ML workflow.
- Okay, interesting.
Kate, what are your thoughts?
- Yeah, we expect them more, yeah.
So we don't use any specific tools.
We're going as many larger companies
building our own set of tools, of course,
made by people who might not ever touch machine learning
in their whole lives,
with some other people who complain
about how their models don't work.
So trying to make everyone happy,
but essentially, yes, it's basically our data engineers
trying to integrate some kind of extra metadata
in our deployment tools
so that we know that we can backtrack
those specific training sets whatsoever
to the models that we're training or deploying and so forth.
So basically it's as Vishnu said,
in the realm of data engineers who are making things happen,
they're the greatest people of them all.
- Two thoughts.
One, before people get too tied up
about trying to be perfect,
like putting just your notebooks and your scripts
into version control and straight again is like 80%.
It's gotta be so much better than not doing anything.
And then two, I'm fascinated by this comment, Kate,
about built by people who don't do machine learning
for machine learning.
How's that sort of interaction?
Is that challenging to cross that boundary or whatever
to work with folks, companies like that,
that are not quite totally experienced
of what you're building?
- I think it's funny for me because I come from consulting
where we kind of closely work together with data engineers
and there was kind of always an overlap of your tasks
and now I'm coming to a larger organization
where people's tasks are pretty well outlined
and their responsibilities are more narrow.
And sometimes people treat me like, I don't know,
something between an alien and dinosaur
because they have never interacted with like a data scientist
machine learning person and ask me questions. Like, I don't know, I'm going to just tell them
what's the meaning of life all of a sudden. >> We have this data. Find the answers.
>> And usually it's very basic stuff, but I think it's very important to have those people
in the organization. Some people call them data strategists. Some people call them just
fun people to talk to, like Dimitris, you know, who will bridge that gap and make sure that
everybody's heard and translated to each other's language to just get that set of requirements
and not build what data engineers want to build or build just what data scientists want
to build and create that connection between the two.
So that is important.
Yeah.
Very cool.
So let's move over to the operations side.
Now, on the upside, I guess the first thing
I really wanna think about is
where do you run your code?
Where do you run your models and APIs
that back them and stuff?
And I looked over around here
and I see a lot of stuff about Kubernetes
on the community for you all.
And so Kubernetes, Linux virtual machines,
run in the cloud?
Does that take too much to run in terms of sort of compute
costs you would rather run it locally and your own servers?
What are your thoughts on this?
- I mean, to me, it depends on how intensive
your training efforts are and how many models
you have in production, right?
Setting up a Kubernetes cluster for one model
seems to me like overkill, but for a company that's,
has tens or hundreds of models in production,
it might make a lot of sense, right?
To try and set up some sort of distributed training
architecture, et cetera.
- Especially if someone else is maintaining
that cluster for you, right?
- Yeah.
- One thing to say, I want to have,
I want to create and babysit a Kubernetes cluster
versus I want to be able to give my job to Kubernetes.
- Yeah. - It's the same, right?
- Exactly, yeah, yeah.
So I think it really depends on, you know,
what scale you're at.
And that's kind of what we talk a lot about
in the community.
If you're confused about what scale you're at
or what maturity level you're at,
I invite you, please join the Slack,
the MLOps community Slack,
and I'm sure people will be able to provide
some very tactical suggestions for your size.
But I guess my answer to you is it depends.
- Okay.
Kate? - I will say--
- Or, do we just go ahead? - Go ahead, Kate.
Go ahead. - I got it.
- I would say use the path of least resistance.
So whatever is there, whatever is available,
what is the easiest way to source your data?
what are the connections that are already set up?
Again, because sometimes you work with different teams
or in consulting different companies.
So that's about it.
And if I'm lucky enough, like right now,
to have a cluster that is babysitted by another person,
well, good, then it's a deal, you know?
Just take it.
This runs on my machine.
- Exactly.
What about Docker?
I mean, I know, sorry, keep going off, go ahead, Dimitris.
- Yeah, there's been, I mean, we should like pour out
some whiskey or whatever, some drink
for lots of data scientists that have gone in
to the Kubernetes world thinking they were gonna pick it up
and get their models out because they needed to.
For some reason, they got brainwashed into thinking like,
oh yeah, I should just learn Kubernetes real fast.
And they never were able to come back.
- Yeah, and it's like such a huge detour, right?
And so we talk about this a lot,
and that is like, first of all,
what should the team composition look like
as a machine learning like squad or team
or someone trying to just get value out of it?
And should a data scientist have to know Kubernetes?
And so that's kind of like the joke here
is like Kubernetes is a gateway drug.
If you can get past it, if you can get into it,
then you're probably gonna go a lot deeper.
but it's really hard to pick up,
especially if you're coming from a data science background.
- Yeah, that's a whole other thing to learn.
Right on, Kate.
- Exactly.
- Yeah, Pimple in the audience has an interesting comment
that I would love to echo as well.
Also, don't forget you're not Google, right?
And you're not Facebook, and you're not Instagram,
and you're not, you know, all these companies
that are trying to run at such an insane scale, right?
that they have to come up and use very interesting
deployment in DevOps,
whereas maybe just running it on a server is fine.
I don't know.
- That's probably the most shared blog in the community
is that you are not Googled blog.
- Yeah, yeah, that was a great article.
Came out like a year and a half ago
or something like that, I think.
- I wanted to add one more comment about that.
Yeah, go for it.
Which is, there's a, you know, he's a community member in our community, but also is very
well known, you know, in the general ML community, Jacopo Talibue, who's the director of AI at
Covio.
He's been putting out a series of articles known as ML Ops at Reasonable Scale.
And I think it talks a lot about this entire concept, which is like a lot of what the discussions
are driven by about ML is about ML at unreasonable scale.
It's the Googles and the Ubers that are doing hundreds of millions and billions of events.
And for many of us, that's not the reality.
And what Mike just pulled up here, it's a great series that I encourage everyone to
read who feels like, "Hey, that's not applicable to me.
What is?"
This answers that.
And we had a month for a podcast as well.
Nice.
Yeah.
The subtitle here is "ML Ops Without Too Much Ops."
Yep.
That's good.
I like it.
And it's the same idea.
- Yeah, it sounds just very focused on machine learning
rather than just broad software development.
Do any of you all use like software as a service type places?
I'm thinking of stuff like Streamlit, for example,
like Streamlit Cloud and these types of things
where kind of build your model and you're just like,
here, go run it.
I mean, Heroku would be sort of a similar website
equivalent of that.
- So we do use Streamlit, but we don't use the cloud.
- That's an interface.
- Right, you can self-host it yourself, right?
- We hosted ourselves because then authentication
and everything else is kind of linked to it.
And then we forget just a nice interface.
- Yeah, what are your thoughts on Streamlit?
- It's awesome.
- Yeah, I haven't had to use it for anything,
but my experience is that like it's the amount of code
that you have to write to create these
really interactive dashboards, it's super, super short.
- Yeah, and I mean, the alternative usually
in the organization is that,
oh, we have this Tableau dashboard, right?
And that requires licenses and training for people.
And again, it has its own limitations.
At some points with certain amount of data,
it just starts crashing.
And this is an easy way for machine learning professionals
showcase whatever they're working on in a way.
And it's been a lifesaver for us.
Sometimes people just don't get what the hell you're talking about.
So we were working on an NLP tool that would analyze a lot of unstructured
text in a lot of different ways.
And we just plugged all the possible ways to visualize that result.
And it just clicked for people.
And then you add a nice little video next to it, you know, it's just so flexible.
Yeah.
It's really cool.
The nice part is it's not just a static notebook output, right?
You can sort of play with the dropdowns,
click in the places, and it becomes a live,
little interactive thing without you
having to learn some sort of front-end programming
framework like Vue.js or something.
Yeah, exactly.
And also, on the other hand, we had developed this package
to do the analysis.
But this gives a no-code interface for people
to completely just do it by themselves.
And they feel really cool about interfacing
with machine learning without having that background,
without having to--
- Oh, that's cool.
Think of it as like a hybrid, right?
Like build the real software development bit
and then expose it to things like Streamline.
Yeah, cool.
Vishnu, what are your thoughts?
- No, I agree with everything Kate said.
I think it's, I remember when it came out,
it was, it came out with a lot of great examples
and it came out with a lot of,
you know, at the time,
it was still TensorFlow 1.0, two hadn't come out,
and it was really, really hard
to work with machine learning models.
It was like you had these underlying graphs
that you had to kind of struggle with,
and people spent so much time just wrangling,
like how do I get an output for this model training exercise
that to have this like really neatly written package
that would just take that as a backend
and then let me make interactive visualizations
like magic. All great tools feel like magic. And I think that's what Streamlit did well.
As Kate said, it allows non-technical users to interact with outputs of models very naturally,
which I think is a really important part of connecting some of this technical to business
value. And there's a whole set of tools like Streamlit that have since come out that are
making various parts of the machine learning workflow or the operations workflow a lot easier,
whether it's sort of letting you set up APIs
on top of those models or visualizations
or all kinds of other sort of aspects.
So started with--
- Yeah, absolutely.
For me, the magic is you write a function
that looks like it just takes arguments
and you don't have to deal with callbacks
and interactive stuff.
And it just kind of adds that into there.
What are some of the other tools like this
that people might be using out there
to get their ML models online?
FastAPI right now is really popular as like a way of, you know, serving your model.
That's API, not FastAI, right?
Yeah, FastAPI.
Yeah, absolutely. Yeah.
FastAPI is really popular. There's a new tool I heard of called Banana, which also does this.
Banana.dev.
Okay.
Yeah, I mean, I think there's still early on, you know, I'm struggling to remember off
the top of my head right now.
But, you know, just in general, this paradigm of saying like, hey, if I can, like, write
a neat, sort of like modern Python library, where I can write, as you said, a function
with a couple arguments, and then do things that are associated with the machine learning
workflow, that's a model that works.
So like great expectations kind of does that with data testing.
You know, kind of works like pytest for data.
And so I think what we're trying to do overall, the big picture is bring, you know, very Pythonic
ways of working with code into the realm of data and machine learning models to the extent
that makes sense.
Yeah, banana.dev is totally new to me.
Interesting.
ML model hosting as an API.
Instant scalable interface hosting
for your machine learning models on serverless GPUs.
There's a lot of words there that
mean interesting stuff about running in production.
Kate, are you familiar with Banana?
Do you have other tools like this you think are neat?
No, I couldn't name anything on top of my head.
Just blanking out.
I always blank out at questions.
I'm like, what's amazing?
- Google Colab is the most amazing thing that ever happened
I think to data scientists,
apart from like the original notebooks
because it's just like,
it's right there with all your random files in the drive.
You can just hook it up, test something quickly.
So, but that's not related to this.
- Sure, what roles do places like Google Colab
and these other hosted notebook places serve
in the production side?
I clearly see the value when I'm doing some development and prototyping and trying to
figure stuff out.
But would you ever try to make that the final version in production?
I'm not sure how it interacts with GCP in production.
So I tried it for my pet projects.
It was very fun because I had to transcribe some random lectures.
And I decided, hmm, what if Google can do that for me?
And I literally had it all in my drive
and ran some code in Colab, linked it to GCP
and it gave me all the results.
So that was like pretty neat
because I really didn't have to do any kind of configuration,
any kind of thought into it.
So for pet projects, that was amazing.
For production, Databricks notebooks kind of work well.
Again, especially if you're in Azure,
I'm not sure how it interacts with Azure,
if it's as convenient.
But with Azure Cloud, it was just amazing.
It was so much less.
As soon as you have your credentials figured out,
everything works in the background,
you just do it as you would do it in a normal notebook
and you can put it in prod, no problem.
- Yeah, fantastic.
That's a good recommendation.
All right, I think we are just out of time,
so I wanna let you all get back to things
before you gotta run.
But, Kate, Vishnu, thank you for being here.
Dmitry has had to run off, but thank you to him as well.
Your final thoughts, maybe people want to get started
with the MLOps community
and maybe get their models in production.
Give us your final thoughts.
Kate, you want to start?
- I think the best way, if you're really just starting out,
go and meet people in person and the MLOps community
or any other community that is available in your area
will give you the right boost of motivation
and also knowledge and just create a support network
for you to be able to get through the blocks
that you will definitely have on your path.
So that would be my word of advice.
Don't stay alone, isolated.
- Yeah, for sure.
Vishnu?
- I think that's a great tip, Kate.
I mean, to anybody starting out in MLOps,
I would say, certainly join the community
and search the answers to that question
because it's been asked before in the Slack community
and there are a lot of great answers.
I would also say like, you know,
check out some established resources like, you know,
I think a guy named Goku Mohandas has been like,
you know, putting together a website, you know,
let me just look it up real quick.
What's it called?
I think it's called ML, Made with ML.
Made with ML is a great resource.
Chip Huyan, Stanford class on machine learning systems
design, Eugene Yan, our Slack community.
These are places that you can just pick up
years worth of knowledge very quickly.
It's organized for you, it's structured for you.
So definitely make use of those existing resources.
- Fantastic.
All right, well, thank you for being here.
It's been really great to hear your experience
and thoughts, so thanks for coming by.
- Thanks for having me.
- Thanks for having me too, my pleasure.
- You bet, bye-bye.
- Yeah.